# Market Anaylsis

## Target Market    
  The Target Market of the Course Warriors will primarily be the 32,775 students currently enrolled in the University of Colorado at Boulder. The market will be split between students enrolled in the graduate and undergraduate programs as well as students who are freshman or transfer students, and students who are returning students. 
The sizes of each market segment changes every year depending on student enrollment. The size of graduate students enrolled in the CU Boulder is currently 5,305 and is steadily increasing. The size of undergraduate students is currently 27,470 students and is rapidly increasing. As for the market segment of first time students, the size of the freshman class is 6,208 and has a rate of growth of 13 percent  while the size of transfer students is 1,119 and has a rate of decrease of 15 percent. Lastly, the market segment of returning students is 16,351 and has been steadily increasing.  
 The characteristics of these potential customers are dependent on how familiar the customers are with the courses at CU Boulder. The team Course Warriors predicts the more familiar the students are with the available courses at CU, the less the students will utilize the application. Therefore, the market segments that will utilize the application the least will be graduate students and returning students. And as undergraduates and first time students do not have much outside sources of courses, they will utilize the application the most. The team Course Warriors also expects that the use of the application will be dependent on the size of the market segments as the greater the size of the market, the more feedback on each course will be available. Therefore, undergraduate students will be the primary customers. 

## Profile of Competitors
  Current competitors include other educational web services such as ratemyprofessor and myedu. The disadvantage of the current competitor product offerings is that the scope of RateMyCourse is limited to only courses and professors at CU Boulder while other educational web services present more educational information on to most known colleges. Also, the competitor product offerings were developed much earlier than RateMyCourse and is more reputable as well as more well known. However, as RateMyCourse will hold very extensive information on each course at CU Boulder unlike other available web services which are directed towards professors and other colleges. As most students of CU Boulder are interested in FCQ information and ratings unique to CU Boulder, the fact that RateMyCourse has only CU information should not be a hinderance. Finally, if the RateMyCourse application is very successful at CU Boulder, it could be extended to work for other colleges and populate our SQL database with FCQs from these colleges. This will increase the scope of the application and make the application more reputable. 
  
## Competitive Advantage
  There are a few benefits to the customers of RateMyCourse over the other education web services such as ratemyprofessor and myedu. One benefit would be the simple user interface of RateMyCourse. The other web services offer more information than what is needed to the typical student at CU Boulder. Unnecessary information will often clutter web pages, making the user feel disoriented. Another benefit would be the fact that the application RateMyCourse has more compatibility than other applications to CU students as it is geared directly towards the students at the university. The FCQ information of CU Boulder available on RateMyCourse will not be available on any other educational web service. Therefore data available for each course will be far more extensive than other websites.
  



  
